The relational database management system allows us to query the data or retrieve the data interms of relational model (records only), but within java programs we hold the data and process them in object model, so programmer has to write lot of code in converting the relational data into object model, to use the data in the programs, thus making them difficult to use, to overcome this problem, object oriented databases are introduced.
	
#4. object oriented database
object oriented database permits us to store the data directly interms of objects itself. since the data is persisted interms of objects we can query and use the data directly within our programs. along with perisisting the objects, the related objects with their relationship also will be persisted by these database.

dis-advantages:
1. The innovation on these databases are stopped at their preliminary stage itself, and there is no database product fully constructed on this concept to support persisting objects of data
2. only the object oriented programming languages will be able to use the data since they return objects, but not portable for other langauges

#5. no-sql or semi-structured database management system
Relational database management system allows us to store the data in structured format where all the records of data we persist in the table has same number of columns. but whereas in real-world not all the data is structured.
In the modern era people are using the software applications for various different purposes in their data to day activities. So the type of information generated by these applications vary from nature of the applications and the purpose of usage

For e.g.. a social media application produces the data which is not structured in nature and doesnt have relationship between the data. each data produced by these applications will have varied fields of data and differs with other information produced.
	
let us consider another example like an medical research lab is conducting various different types of research and want to record the outcomes of their investigations permanently on the database. given the information being capture for each trail they made cannot be persisted into relational database management system, because the parameters underwhich they conduction the research and outcome of the fields produced out of the investigation will vary greatly. So the information produced by these systems are not structured. those are semi-structured which means each record of data consists various different columns of data

if we tried capturing and persisting such data into relational databases we endup in creating table with huge number of columns where most of the columns will be persisted with NULL values wasting huge amount of storage memory


we can use a mechanism to capture semi-structured data in relational database tables using columnar database tables

investigation
investigation_no  trail_no  investigation_type   remarks  investigation_conducted_dt   investigation_conducted_by 
1                 1         typhoid              initial  10/03/2023                   alex

investigation_result
investigation_no
trail_no
parameter_name
parameter_value

investigation_no  trail_no   parameter_name  parameter_value
1                  1          soduim_level      10
1                  1          rbc_count         2000
1                  1           wbc_count       3938
	
now the tables contains columns of data which is called "columnar tables"